Newsletters: add 358 (2025-06-13) (#2361)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-06-13-newsletter.md

  miners) controlling 33% of total network hashrate, with no additional
  advantages, can become marginally more profitable on a long term basis
  than the miners controlling the majority 67% of hashrate.  This is
  achieved by the 33% miner selectively delaying announcement of some of
  the new blocks it finds.  As the dishonest miner's hashrate increases
  above 33%, it becomes even more profitable until it exceeds 50%
  hashrate and is able to prevent its competitors from keeping any new
  blocks on the best blockchain.

  We did not carefully review Poinsot's post, but his approach looked
  sound to us and we would recommend it to anyone interested in
  validating the math or better understanding it.

- **Relay censorship resistance through top mempool set reconciliation:**
  Peter Todd [posted][todd feerec] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list about
  a mechanism that would allow nodes to drop peers that are filtering
  high-feerate transactions.  The mechanism depends on [cluster
  mempool][topic cluster mempool] and a set reconciliation mechanism
  such as that used by [erlay][topic erlay].  A node would use cluster
  mempool to calculate its most profitable set of unconfirmed

>   transactions that could fit in (for example) 8,000,000 weight units (a
>   max of 8 MB).  Each of the node's peers would also calculate their top

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  transactions that could fit within (for example) 8,000,000 weight units (a
  maximum of 8 MB).  Each of the node's peers would also calculate their top
```

  8 MWU of unconfirmed transactions.  Using a highly efficient
  algorithm, such as [minisketch][topic minisketch], the node would
  reconcile its set of transactions with each of its peers.  In doing

>   so, it would learn exactly what transactions each peer has in the top

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  so, it would learn exactly what transactions each peer has at the top
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think "in" makes more sense when we're talking about set reconciliation, as items are "in" a set (or not) rather than "at" a set.

  of its mempool.  Then the node would periodically drop the connection
  to whichever peer had the least profitable mempool on average.

  By dropping the least profitable connections, the node would
  eventually find peers that were least likely to filter out
  high-feerate transactions.  Todd mentioned that he hopes to work on an
  implementation after cluster mempool support is merged into Bitcoin
  Core.  He credited the idea to Gregory Maxwell and others; Optech
  first mentioned the underlying idea in [Newsletter #9][news9
  reconcile].

- **Updating BIP390 to allow duplicate participant keys in `musig()` expressions:**
  Ava Chow [posted][chow dupsig] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to ask
  if anyone objected to updating [BIP390][] to allow `musig()`
  expressions in [output script descriptors][topic descriptors] to
  contain the same participant public key more than once.  This would
  simplify implementation and is explicitly allowed by the [BIP327][]
  specification of [musig][topic musig].  As of this writing, no one has

>   objected and Chow has opened a [pull request][bips #1867] to change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  objected, and Chow has opened a [pull request][bips #1867] to change
```

  the BIP390 specification.

- **Descriptor encryption library:** Josh Doman [posted][doman descrypt]

>   to Delving Bitcoin to announce a library he's built which encrypts the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to Delving Bitcoin to announce a library he's built that encrypts the
```

  sensitive parts of an [output script descriptor][topic descriptors] or
  [miniscript][topic miniscript] to the public keys contained within it.
  He describes what information is needed to decrypt:

  > - If your wallet requires 2-of-3 keys to spend, it will require
  >   exactly 2-of-3 keys to decrypt.
  >
  > - If your wallet uses a complex miniscript policy like “Either 2
  >   keys OR (a timelock AND another key)”, encryption follows the same
  >   structure, as if all timelocks and hash-locks are satisfied.

  This differs from the encrypted descriptor backup scheme discussed in
  [Newsletter #351][news351 salvacrypt], in which knowledge of any

>   public key contained within the descriptor allowed decryption of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public key contained within the descriptor allows decryption of the
```

  descriptor.  Doman argues that his scheme provides better privacy for
  cases where the encrypted descriptor is being backed up to a public or

>   semi-public source, such as to a blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  semi-public source, such as a blockchain.
```
